Now that our query service is all put together, we're going to need to make some changes to the React
application, make sure that it reaches out to the query service to get the data that it needs.
So right now our React application makes get requests to our post service and get requests to our common
service directly whenever it needs to show posts or whenever it needs to show comments.
So that's not what we want anymore.
Rather than making a request to post or comments, we want the React application to make one single
request over to query service where it's going to get all the information it needs to show everything
about our application, all the posts and all the associated comments.
As a quick reminder, ferry service runs on port 4002.
So we want to make sure that we go around and update our request to go to Port 4002 and make a get request
to post.
The other thing I want to mention very quickly is that right now we are just talking about reading data.
We're just talking about getting a list of posts to the show, to the user.
The Post Service and Common Service are still 100% in charge of actually creating comments and creating
posts.
So if the React application needs to create a post or create a comment, it will still reach out to
these services directly.
All we're talking about right now is getting information to show to the user.
Okay.
So let's open up our React application.
We're going to make sure that we only make that one request directly to the query service.
So back inside my editor, I'll find the client directory.
I'll then find CRC and then finally post list.
Inside a post list.
This is where we are making a request to get a big list of all of our posts from the post service right
now.
That's not what we want anymore.
We instead want to make a request to localhost 4002 and then still slash posts.
Again.
4002 is where our query service is running.
Let's then do a quick console log of resort data just so we can inspect the information that comes back
and just make sure that we've got everything we expect.
Okay.
I'm going to save this file.
Go back over to my browser and check out check out the React application.
You'll notice that my app is automatically refreshed inside my console.
I'll see that console log.
So this is the big list of posts and embedded comments we got back from the query service.
That's the idea of a post.
Inside is the actual idea of the post, along with the title of the post and then the array of associated
comments.
So it looks like it's working correctly right now.
We are getting all the data that we expect.
It looks like the application itself is still working as well.
But if you take a look at the network request log, you'll notice that the React app is still trying
to make that request to the comments endpoint.
It's not actually using the list of comments that is embedded inside of your automatically.
So we still have a quick change or two to make.
Back inside my editor, I'm going to remove the console log that we just added.
I'll then go down to rendered posts.
Remember rendered post is where we iterated over the list of posts.
So we got back inside that response and we built up a separate card out of each one.
We then eventually created an instance of the comment list component.
When we create a comment list, we pass down just the ID of the post that we're currently looking at.
And then it was up to comment list to make a follow up request and get all the comments associated with
that post ID that is no longer necessary.
We now have all the comments that we need directly inside of this post that we are iterating over.
So rather than passing down the post ID to comment list, we'll just pass down the list of comments
directly.
So I'll delete that post ID thing and replace it with comment or comments.
Is post comments.
We've already got the list of comments.
We'll just pass them down directly and then leave it up to comment list to iterate over that list and
render them out.
So I'll save this.
I'm going to go over to my comment list component now.
Yours comment list.
And then remember, comment list is currently making requests to get all that data or all that list
of comments no longer necessary at all so we can delete that state or you state call.
We can delete batch data.
And we can delete user effect.
I'll clean up the import statements at the top so we no longer need Axios.
We no longer need U.S. state or U.S. effect.
And then in our props list right here we are no longer receiving post ID.
Instead, we just received the list of comments.
It turns out that all the other code we have inside of here is going to work just fine.
So we take the comments that we receive as a prop.
We're going to map them.
We generate an ly for each one and then render those lies inside of a ul.
So let's go ahead and save this flip back over to the browser.
And see how we're doing.
So I can now refresh the page.
You'll notice that I still see my post right here with the associated comment.
But I only had to make that one single request over to the query service.
We can still continue to try to make new posts and comments and whatnot.
So I'll put in a third post.
Refresh the page and I'll put in a third comment.
And submit that and refresh.
And there we go.
We've got our second post, second comment and third post with third comment.
Well, I'd say that this worked out pretty well.
So we have now introduced a brand new service into our application.
It is consuming events from these other services.
And it's using those events to populate some internal store of data.
And we did all this to make sure that we can minimize the number of requests that are required.
But more importantly, this really is a demonstration of how we can do some cross service communication.
There's something really interesting about this approach.
Remember, I laid out a couple of big benefits to this approach a while ago.
Back in this diagram, back over here, I said, Hey, our query service is not going to have any dependencies
like direct dependencies on other services.
So why is that good?
Well, watch this.
If we go back over to our terminal.
We can now kill 100% the common service.
That's the Common Service and we can destroy the post service as well.
So we can pretend that those two services just crashed for who knows what reason.
But you know what?
Our query service is still running just fine, so we can still serve up data to users of our application
without any issue whatsoever.
So I can refresh this.
I still see my data up here.
If I try to create a new post, I will of course get an error because that post service which is in
charge of creating posts, is not running.
But I still have a major portion of my application running successfully, and that's all what this independent
idea of independent services is about.
We can have some services crash.
Others are still working.
And in general, maybe our application will still be in a very usable state.
All right.
So this looks good.
But I do want to add in one last feature to this application.
So we'll take a quick pause right here, and I'll see you in just a minute.